15112
Term Project Deliverable 3
Guodong Zhao

(Expand the window of the text editor to see a better arrangement)

Main Goal:

This program, apart from being an text editor, tries to provide the user an easy way 
to store their code snippets and reuse them later.

Breakdown:

1. UI. The UI is designed using the tkinter library python has. The widgets used 
include Text,Menu,Frame,Canvas,Scrollbar,Label,Toplevel,Entry,messagebox,Treeview, 
fileDialog, progress bar etc.

	1.1 Snippet Directory. To store the snippets, the program creates a directory 
	which stores the user’s snippets according to the tag of the snippet. 
	Users can easily access the directory in a treeview tree to the left. 
	The search input is realized through the entry widget, when user inputs a 
	letter, the treeview is refreshed. A scrollbar is used for scrolling the 
	tree view.

	1.2 Line Number. The line number area is a canvas with line numbers draw in 
	it. Each time when there is a change in the main text editor, the line number
	area is updated.

	1.3 Main Text editor area. The main text editor is a Text widget with a lot 
	of customization such as syntax highlighting, auto-suggestion and many other
	text editing features. Tow scrollbars are used to scroll the area.

	1.4 Cursor Label. The cursor label is a Label widget in the main text area,
	it shows the position of the cursor and is updated each time cursor moves.

	1.5 Result Area. Result area is a Text widget that users cannot directly
	modify. When users execute their code, the result area will show the 
	executed result of the code.

2. Approach to main features.
	
	2.1 Syntax highlighting. First, the program will parse the code,
	breaking the code down into small parts. Then the program will
	analyze the syntactic role of each part. After analysis, the program
	will give tags to each part and highlight them in the Text widget.
	To achieve a shorter highlighting time and more accuracy, each line is 
	recolorized after a key press and all the code is recolorized after a 
	couple of seconds.
		
	2.2 Bracket Matching. The bracket matching uses a stack to store the 
	brackets. When looping, if there is a front bracket, store in the stack;
	if there is a closing bracket, see if there is a matching one in the stack,
	if there is not, the bracket will be highlighted.

	2.3 Text searching and replacing. Loop through the text to find matchings
	based on user input and the state of ignoring-case option.

	2.4 Auto-complete suggestion. When user inputs, the program will try to match
	the current word to the word dictionary which contains built-in variables,
	functions and user defined variables and functions. The matching process is 
	fuzzy matching. It is based on regular expression, so that the user can input 
	segments of the word and the program will still give suggestion.
	(For more detailed description of the algorithm, please see 
	“Update Deliverable 3.txt” in the main folder.)

	2.5 Snippet/script saving. Uses file I/O and file dialogs. The user can save
	snippet or script very easily using the file dialog.

	2.6 Push mode. The editor has a push mode in which the user has to keep 
	typing or the last line of code will disappear. The user first chooses a time
	that he or she wants to code and then the program will start monitoring the 
	idle time.
	If idle time is longer than 4 seconds, the last line of code will disappear.
	A progress bar will appear in push mode to indicate the time left.

	2.7 Import from Image. Users are able to import snippets from images. When 
	the user chooses an image, the program will first process the image into 
	black and white (binary) image and then use optical character recognition to 
	read the code. After reading the code, the program will calculate the 
	indentation level using an algorithm I designed and then the program will 
	check the grammar of the code and improve the style.

	2.8 Style Check and Improvement. Read the script in the main text area and
	check if the script complies with PEP8 python style. Then if the user selects
	improve style, the program will modify the script to comply with the style
	guide. 
	(For more information on PEP8, visit: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/)

	2.9 Script Running. Script running is very useful for debugging. The program
	uses subprocess to run the user’s code and show the result in the result area
	to the right of the program, 

	2.9 Text editing. The text editing features such as selecting line, selecting 
	all, comment line, indent line, unindent line are based on string processing. 
	To increase the speed of large file processing, the program utilized multi-
	threading to handle large files.